קטע הבנה:
NAPS IN HIGH SCHOOL 

I  High school students sometimes fall asleep in class because they don't get enough sleep at night. There are different reasons for this. Many students go to sleep late. They have a lot of homework and they spend a lot of time on their computers. Some of them have jobs and other activities in the afternoon and evening. Also, they have to get up early in the morning because most schools start early.

II  Teenagers should sleep at least eight hours every night. Doctors say that only 15% of teenagers get enough sleep. This is not only bad for their health. It also affects their classwork and how successful they are in sports.

III  High schools are trying to solve the problem. Some schools allow tired teenagers to take a nap in school during the day in special "quiet rooms". The school does not allow cell phones or computers in these rooms. Students can't even talk in the quiet rooms. "A short nap in school is not the same as eight hours of sleep at night but it does help," says one high school student. Other schools are starting the school day an hour later. The extra hour of sleep in the morning seems to make a difference.

IV  Everyone agrees that teenagers need to get more sleep. One teacher says, "Adults need to help teenagers go to sleep earlier at night. They should encourage them to watch less television and turn off their cell phones."
שאלות:
 What do we learn in paragraph I about high school students?
   They sleep in the afternoon.
   They are tired in class.    They go to school late.
התשובה הנכונה 2
 
 Students do not get enough sleep. How does this affect them according to paragraph II?
   15% of the students don't come to class.
   Many students don't participate in sports.
   It is harder for them to succeed in school. 
התשובה הנכונה 3

 What can tired teenagers do in the "quiet rooms"?
(paragraph III)

   Speak on their cell phones.
   Use their computers.
   Go to sleep. 
התשובה הנכונה 3

 According to paragraph III, what does one student think about the solution to the problem?
He thinks (–).

   it is helpful 
   it makes no difference
   it is very healthy
התשובה הנכונה 1

 Why do some students get an extra hour of sleep in the morning?
(paragraph III)

   They don't go to some of the classes.
   They finish their homework at night.
   They go to school later. 
התשובה הנכונה 3
 What should teenagers do to get more sleep at night?
(paragraph IV)

   Get help from adults.
   Turn off their cellphones. 
   encourage their friends to sleep together.
התשובה הנכונה 2